# Infrared Object Tracking System
This project consists of two small 180 degree servos each with 12 kg-cm of torque configured in a pan-tilt assembly. These servos are supplied by an external 6V power source. Mounted to the arm of the upper servo is an IR-cut switching camera capable of capturing video with and without ambient visible light. On the camera itself are six near infrared LEDs that flood a scene with NIR light, facilitating image processing and freeing the system of any reliance on ambient NIR light. Data lines connect the servos to an Arduino Uno which is itself connected to the controlling computer via a USB-B connection. The Arduino and its simple program (servo_serial_interface.ino) acts as a servo driver by translating serial commands received from the computer into PWM signals for the servos.

The control program is written in Python and uses the pySerial module for servo control. OpenCV is used for video capture, object detection, and video displaying. Any form of color detection was not possible for this system as infrared images do not have color information, only intensity. Any .xml-saved Haar cascade can be used with this program through the use of OpenCV's CascadeClassifier class as seen in target_object.py. Object tracking was accomplished through the use of proportional gain control. The x and y values of the center of the frame are calculated as well as the x and y values of the center of the detected object. A pair of offsets between these values are then calculated (the error signal). The adjustment in servo angles required to center the object in the frame is calculated by multiplying this offset by the proportional gain constant Kp - the ratio of degrees of servo response to pixel offset. This way of scaling the error to response and the nature of this pan-tilt system means that the value that a user sets Kp to should decrease as range to target increases as an equal number of pixels offset represents a lesser angular distance at greater range than it does closer range.
